.rn '' }`
''' $RCSfile$$Revision$$Date$
'''
''' $Log$
'''
.de Sh
.br
.if t .Sp
.ne 5
.PP
\fB\\$1\fR
.PP
..
.de Sp
.if t .sp .5v
.if n .sp
..
.de Ip
.br
.ie \\n(.$>=3 .ne \\$3
.el .ne 3
.IP "\\$1" \\$2
..
.de Vb
.ft CW
.nf
.ne \\$1
..
.de Ve
.ft R

.fi
..
'''
'''
'''     Set up \*(-- to give an unbreakable dash;
'''     string Tr holds user defined translation string.
'''     Bell System Logo is used as a dummy character.
'''
.tr \(*W-|\(bv\*(Tr
.ie n \{\
.ds -- \(*W-
.ds PI pi
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=24u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-12u'-\" diablo 10 pitch
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=20u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-8u'-\" diablo 12 pitch
.ds L" ""
.ds R" ""
.ds L' '
.ds R' '
'br\}
.el\{\
.ds -- \(em\|
.tr \*(Tr
.ds L" ``
.ds R" ''
.ds L' `
.ds R' '
.ds PI \(*p
'br\}
.\"	If the F register is turned on, we'll generate
.\"	index entries out stderr for the following things:
.\"		TH	Title 
.\"		SH	Header
.\"		Sh	Subsection 
.\"		Ip	Item
.\"		X<>	Xref  (embedded
.\"	Of course, you have to process the output yourself
.\"	in some meaninful fashion.
.if \nF \{
.de IX
.tm Index:\\$1\t\\n%\t"\\$2"
..
.nr % 0
.rr F
.\}
.TH GIFMAP 1 "1.37" "26/Jan/97" "User Commands"
.IX Title "GIFMAP 1"
.UC
.IX Name "gifmap - web-based image index builder"
.if n .hy 0
.if n .na
.ds C+ C\v'-.1v'\h'-1p'\s-2+\h'-1p'+\s0\v'.1v'\h'-1p'
.de CQ          \" put $1 in typewriter font
.ft CW
'if n "\c
'if t \\&\\$1\c
'if n \\&\\$1\c
'if n \&"
\\&\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7
'.ft R
..
.\" @(#)ms.acc 1.5 88/02/08 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.	\" AM - accent mark definitions
.bd B 3
.	\" fudge factors for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds #H 0
.	ds #V .8m
.	ds #F .3m
.	ds #[ \f1
.	ds #] \fP
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds #H ((1u-(\\\\n(.fu%2u))*.13m)
.	ds #V .6m
.	ds #F 0
.	ds #[ \&
.	ds #] \&
.\}
.	\" simple accents for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds ' \&
.	ds ` \&
.	ds ^ \&
.	ds , \&
.	ds ~ ~
.	ds ? ?
.	ds ! !
.	ds /
.	ds q
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds ' \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\'\h"|\\n:u"
.	ds ` \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\`\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'^\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds , \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)',\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu-\*(#H-.1m)'~\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ? \s-2c\h'-\w'c'u*7/10'\u\h'\*(#H'\zi\d\s+2\h'\w'c'u*8/10'
.	ds ! \s-2\(or\s+2\h'-\w'\(or'u'\v'-.8m'.\v'.8m'
.	ds / \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\z\(sl\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds q o\h'-\w'o'u*8/10'\s-4\v'.4m'\z\(*i\v'-.4m'\s+4\h'\w'o'u*8/10'
.\}
.	\" troff and (daisy-wheel) nroff accents
.ds : \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H+.1m+\*(#F)'\v'-\*(#V'\z.\h'.2m+\*(#F'.\h'|\\n:u'\v'\*(#V'
.ds 8 \h'\*(#H'\(*b\h'-\*(#H'
.ds v \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\v'-\*(#V'\*(#[\s-4v\s0\v'\*(#V'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds _ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H+(\*(#F*2/3))'\v'-.4m'\z\(hy\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds . \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)'\v'\*(#V*4/10'\z.\v'-\*(#V*4/10'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds 3 \*(#[\v'.2m'\s-2\&3\s0\v'-.2m'\*(#]
.ds o \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu+\w'\(de'u-\*(#H)/2u'\v'-.3n'\*(#[\z\(de\v'.3n'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds d- \h'\*(#H'\(pd\h'-\w'~'u'\v'-.25m'\f2\(hy\fP\v'.25m'\h'-\*(#H'
.ds D- D\\k:\h'-\w'D'u'\v'-.11m'\z\(hy\v'.11m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds th \*(#[\v'.3m'\s+1I\s-1\v'-.3m'\h'-(\w'I'u*2/3)'\s-1o\s+1\*(#]
.ds Th \*(#[\s+2I\s-2\h'-\w'I'u*3/5'\v'-.3m'o\v'.3m'\*(#]
.ds ae a\h'-(\w'a'u*4/10)'e
.ds Ae A\h'-(\w'A'u*4/10)'E
.ds oe o\h'-(\w'o'u*4/10)'e
.ds Oe O\h'-(\w'O'u*4/10)'E
.	\" corrections for vroff
.if v .ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\s-2\u~\d\s+2\h'|\\n:u'
.if v .ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'\v'-.4m'^\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.	\" for low resolution devices (crt and lpr)
.if \n(.H>23 .if \n(.V>19 \
\{\
.	ds : e
.	ds 8 ss
.	ds v \h'-1'\o'\(aa\(ga'
.	ds _ \h'-1'^
.	ds . \h'-1'.
.	ds 3 3
.	ds o a
.	ds d- d\h'-1'\(ga
.	ds D- D\h'-1'\(hy
.	ds th \o'bp'
.	ds Th \o'LP'
.	ds ae ae
.	ds Ae AE
.	ds oe oe
.	ds Oe OE
.\}
.rm #[ #] #H #V #F C
.SH "NAME"
.IX Header "NAME"
gifmap \- web-based image index builder
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.IX Header "SYNOPSIS"
\fBgifmap\fR [\ --address\ string]
       [\ --coloralink\ colorspec\ ]
       [\ --colorback\ colorspec\ ]
       [\ --colorlink\ colorspec\ ]
       [\ --colortrans\ colorspec\ ]
       [\ --colorvlink\ colorspec\ ]
       [\ --columns\ number\ ]
       [\ --debug\ ]
       [\ --dircoloralink\ colorspec\ ]
       [\ --dircolorback\ colorspec\ ]
       [\ --dircolorlink\ colorspec\ ]
       [\ --dircolorvlink\ colorspec\ ]
       [\ --dirindexname\ filename\ ]
       [\ --forcehtml\ ]
       [\ --forcemontage\ ]
       [\ --header\ string\ ]
       [\ --help\ ]
       [\ --htimage\ path\ ]
       [\ --iconpath\ path\ ]
       [\ --indexname\ filename\ ]
       [\ --maptype\ cern|ncsa\ ]
       [\ --maxgif\ number\ ]
       [\ --montageflags\ string\ ]
       [\ --pageindexname\ string\ ]
       [\ --prefixpath\ path\ ]
       [\ --readme\ filename\ ]
       [\ --recurse\ ]
       [\ --relative\ ]
       [\ --rootpath\ path\ ]
       [\ --rows\ number\ ]
       [\ --srcdir\ path\ ]
       [\ --thumbfont\ fontspec\ ]
       [\ --thumbgeom\ widthxheight\ ]
       [\ --title\ string\ ]
       [\ --verbose\ ]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.IX Header "DESCRIPTION"
\fBGifmap\fR creates HTML index files and imagemaps
corresponding to a directory of image files. \fBGifmap\fR is
ideal for making large image collections available on the
net or for just using your Web browser for browsing images.
.PP
Configuration options are derived from either the command line
(options prefixed with \*(L'\-\*(R', \*(L'--\*(R', or \*(L'+'), configuration file
($opt_ options), or internal defaults ($opt_ options). Some
arguments (like X11 font specifications) seem to confuse PERL's
getopt function. When this happens, try using the syntax
\fI--option=arg\fR to avoid any confusion caused by a space.
.PP
The default configuration file name is \*(L"\fI.gifmaprc\fR\*(R".
Configuration files are written in PERL syntax and are sourced via
PERL's eval statement. When \fBgifmap\fR is executed, it first reads a
\*(L"\fI.gifmaprc\fR\*(R" file in the user's home directory (if present). When
a directory is processed, \fBgifmap\fR will process any \*(L"\fI.gifmaprc\fR\*(R"
files found in the path from the server's root directory
(\fI$opt_rootpath\fR) to the directory being processed. All
configuration options are additive.
.PP
Evaluation order is as follows :
.Ip "1) $\s-1HOME\s0/.gifmaprc" 4
.IX Item "1) $\s-1HOME\s0/.gifmaprc"
.Ip "2) Command line options" 4
.IX Item "2) Command line options"
.Ip "3) Per directory .gifmaprc files." 4
.IX Item "3) Per directory .gifmaprc files."
Gifmaprc  files  are evaluated in path order from server root to
current directory. This allows sub-directories to \*(L"inherit\*(R" the
configuration of parent directories.
.PP
Each directory is processed with items 1 & 2 already complete.
.PP
In general, \fBgifmap\fR's defaults produce nice output.
However, the options \fB$opt_prefixpath\fR,
\fB$opt_rootpath\fR, \fB$opt_iconpath\fR, \fB$opt_htimage\fR, and
\fB$opt_maptype\fR must be configured on a per-site basis so
please read the documentation on these options and
perform the required configuration before executing the
program.
.SH "PROGRAM OPTIONS"
.IX Header "PROGRAM OPTIONS"
.Sh "General:"
.IX Subsection "General:"
.Ip "\fB$opt_debug\fR=\fI1\fR (\fB--debug\fR) " 4
.IX Item "\fB$opt_debug\fR=\fI1\fR (\fB--debug\fR) "
Print debugging messages.
.Ip "\fB$opt_forcehtml\fR=\fI1\fR (\fB--forcehtml\fR)" 4
.IX Item "\fB$opt_forcehtml\fR=\fI1\fR (\fB--forcehtml\fR)"
Force \s-1HTML\s0 files to be generated (default off).
Without this option, \fBgifmap\fR will only re-generate \s-1HTML\s0
files as required. Use this option if gifmap options have
changed since the last run and you want to update the
pages using the new options.
.Ip "\fB$opt_forcemontage\fR=\fI1\fR  (\fB--forcemontage\fR)" 4
.IX Item "\fB$opt_forcemontage\fR=\fI1\fR  (\fB--forcemontage\fR)"
Force montage (default false).
Without this option, \fBgifmap\fR will only re-generate
montages as required. Use this option if gifmap montage
options have changed since the last run and you want to
update the pages using the new options
.Ip "\fB$opt_help\fR=\fI1\fR  (\fB--help\fR)" 4
.IX Item "\fB$opt_help\fR=\fI1\fR  (\fB--help\fR)"
Display usage message.
.Ip "\fB$opt_ignore\fR=\fI1\fR" 4
.IX Item "\fB$opt_ignore\fR=\fI1\fR"
If \fB$opt_ignore\fR is set in a directory's \*(L"<.gifmaprc>\*(R" file, then that
directory will not be processed. If recursion is enabled, then recursion
will continue into any sub-directories. See also \fB$opt_indexname\fR.
.Ip "\fB$opt_prune\fR=\fI1\fR" 4
.IX Item "\fB$opt_prune\fR=\fI1\fR"
If \fB$opt_prune\fR is set in a directory's \*(L"\fI.gifmaprc\fR\*(R" file, then no
sub-directories below that directory will be processed by gifmap when
operating in the recursive mode.  See also \fB$opt_indexname\fR.
.Ip "\fB$opt_recurse\fR=\fI1\fR  (\fB--recurse\fR)" 4
.IX Item "\fB$opt_recurse\fR=\fI1\fR  (\fB--recurse\fR)"
Recurse directory tree. The default is to only process the current
directory, generating appropriate links for sub-directories and the parent
directory, as if gifmap is recuring. Selecting this option causes \fBgifmap\fR
to recurse through sub-directories as well.
.Ip "\fB$opt_srcdir\fR=\fIpath\fR  (\fB--srcdir\fR \fIpath\fR)" 4
.IX Item "\fB$opt_srcdir\fR=\fIpath\fR  (\fB--srcdir\fR \fIpath\fR)"
Image directory to process or start recursion at. Specify this option
(usally on the command line) if the directory you want to process is not
the current directory.  The default directory to process is the current
directory.
.Ip "\fB$opt_verbose\fR=\fI1\fR  (\fB--verbose\fR)" 4
.IX Item "\fB$opt_verbose\fR=\fI1\fR  (\fB--verbose\fR)"
Normally \fBgifmap\fR prints only the directory names for directories it
processes. Selecting the verbose option displays the number of images and
sub-directories in the directory as well as the number of pages to be
generated, and the current page number.
.Sp
It will also show the current image index \fBgifmap\fR is currently creating
as a progress report.
.Ip "\fB$opt_rootpath\fR=\fIpath\fR  (\fB--rootpath\fR \fIpath\fR)" 4
.IX Item "\fB$opt_rootpath\fR=\fIpath\fR  (\fB--rootpath\fR \fIpath\fR)"
Absolute path to server root directory (\s-1NCSA/\s0Apatche DocumentRoot) or the
users Home page directory. This must be an absolute path (starting with
\*(L'/') to the top of the \s-1WWW\s0 directory tree gifmap will be processing in.  If
this value is specified incorrectly, \fBgifmap\fR will generate incorrect
URLs.
.Ip "\fB$opt_prefixpath\fR=\fIpath\fR  (\fB--prefixpath\fR \fIpath\fR)" 4
.IX Item "\fB$opt_prefixpath\fR=\fIpath\fR  (\fB--prefixpath\fR \fIpath\fR)"
The \s-1URL\s0 to prepend to specify the \s-1WWW\s0 location of \fB$opt_rootpath\fR.
For the \s-1WWW\s0 server's root directory this is a empty string (""). For a
user's home pages this is the \s-1URL\s0 path to their home pages (usally
"/~username", but may be different on your server). This is only used
for figuring out the URLs of the \fBgifmap\fR icon images.
.Sp
if \fB$opt_relative\fR is enabled then this option is not actually used.  It
however must be used if the \fBgifmap\fR icon images are not in the same \s-1WWW\s0
directory tree as the directorys \fBgifmap\fR is processing.  (See the next
option).
.Ip "\fB$opt_relative\fR=\fI1\fR  (\fB--relative\fR)" 4
.IX Item "\fB$opt_relative\fR=\fI1\fR  (\fB--relative\fR)"
Translate URLs for \fBgifmap\fR icon images as relative paths from the
directory \fBgifmap\fR is processing. The images must be in the same \s-1WWW\s0
directory tree otherwise the relative paths will be incorrect. 
.Sp
If the images are is not in the same directory tree, then this option
will have to be turned off and \fB$opt_prefixpath\fR and \fB$opt_iconpath\fR
used to locate the \fBgifmap\fR icon images using absolute URLs paths
for that server. 
.Ip "\fB$opt_iconpath\fR=\fIpath\fR  (\fB--iconpath\fR \fIpath\fR)" 4
.IX Item "\fB$opt_iconpath\fR=\fIpath\fR  (\fB--iconpath\fR \fIpath\fR)"
This is the relative path from the top of the \s-1WWW\s0 directory tree specified
in \fB$opt_rootpath\fR. If this value is specified incorrectly then
\fBgifmap\fR will generate incorrect URLs for its icons.
.Ip "\fB%opt_icon\fR=(  \*(L'\fIid\fR\*(R', \*(L'\fIfilename\fR\*(R', .... );" 4
.IX Item "\fB%opt_icon\fR=(  \*(L'\fIid\fR\*(R', \*(L'\fIfilename\fR\*(R', .... );"
This is a hash table of all the icon images used by \fBgifmap\fR
and located in the \fB$opt_iconpath\fR directory. The elments are pairs
of icon \fIid\fRs and the filename of the image. The \fIid\fRs currently used
\fBgifmap\fR are :\- prev, next, next_grey, up, help, and ball.
.Sp
Other images can also be defined in the hash table and \fBgifmap\fR will
automatically process those images along with the images it uses, to
generate the icon \s-1URL\s0 and size infomation. This information can then be
used in the various special formating options to add extra, or special
purpose links.  
.Sp
\s-1WARNING\s0: currently icon information can only be set in the global
gifmaprc file (usally \*(L"\fI~/.gifmaprc\fR\*(R", as unexpected results can happen
if modified in per-directory rc files.
.Sh "Filenames:"
.IX Subsection "Filenames:"
.Ip "\fB$opt_indexname\fR=\fIfilename\fR  (\fB--indexname\fR \fIfilename\fR)" 4
.IX Item "\fB$opt_indexname\fR=\fIfilename\fR  (\fB--indexname\fR \fIfilename\fR)"
Base name of master index files (default server index), usally set to
\*(L"\fIindex.html\*(R"\fR. This is also the option \fBgifmap\fR will look for
in sub-directories and parent directory \*(L"\fI.gifmaprc\fR\*(R" files as the
document to make links to.
.Sp
\s-1EG\s0: If a directory is not processed by gifmap, by either never running
\fBgifmap\fR on that directory, or the option \fB$opt_ignore\fR has been set,
then setting \fB$opt_indexname\fR will specify the document \fBgifmap\fR created
index files of \s-1OTHER\s0 directories should link to.
.Sp
If you do not what gifmap to ever link to this directory then setting this
option, \fB$opt_indexname\fR, to \fB"\s-1NOLINK\s0\*(R"\fR will will prevent \fBgifmap\fR index
files in other directories having links to this directory.
.Sp
If you want \fBgifmap\fR to entirely ignore a particular directory tree,
even during recursion of the surrounding directories, then you ca use
the following options in its \*(L"\fI.gifmaprc\fR\*(R" file....
\f(CW
#
# .gifmaprc -- Gifmap is not to process or even link to this directory tree
#
$opt_indexname    = 'NOLINK';  # Do not link to this directory
$opt_ignore       = 1;         # Do not generate gifmap image indexes
$opt_prune        = 1;         # Don't recurse into sub-directories
\fR
.Ip "\fB$opt_readme\fR=\fIfilename\fR  (\fB--readme\fR \fIfilename\fR)" 4
.IX Item "\fB$opt_readme\fR=\fIfilename\fR  (\fB--readme\fR \fIfilename\fR)"
Name of directory information file. If this named file exists in
the directory, then it will be displayed in preference to
the first page of images. Typically the contents of this file
describe the images to be viewed.
.Ip "\fB$opt_pageindexname\fR=\fIstring\fR  (\fB--pageindexname\fR \fIstring\fR)" 4
.IX Item "\fB$opt_pageindexname\fR=\fIstring\fR  (\fB--pageindexname\fR \fIstring\fR)"
Base name of page-related index files. This name is used as the prefix for
all generated files except for the main index file. It is usally set to
some hidden (or unix `dot\*(R' filename) such as \*(L".index\*(R".
.Sp
.Vb 2
\&  
\&=item B<$opt_dirindexname>=I<filename>  (B<--dirindexname> I<filename>)
.Ve
Directory-name to title cross-reference sub-directories. If this file
exists, then it is searched for a specification for the linked directory.
If a match is found, then the replacement text is used as the link text.
The format of the file is:
.Sp
.Vb 1
\& dirname  dirtext
.Ve
With \fIdirname\fR representing the directory name and
\fIdirtext\fR representing the replacement link text.
.Sh "Server-side imagemaps:"
.IX Subsection "Server-side imagemaps:"
.Ip "\fB$opt_htimage\fR=\fIpath\fR  (\fB--htimage\fR \fIpath\fR)" 4
.IX Item "\fB$opt_htimage\fR=\fIpath\fR  (\fB--htimage\fR \fIpath\fR)"
Imagemap \s-1CGI\s0 program \s-1URL\s0 (set to \*(L'\*(R' for none). Older
servers (e.g. \s-1CERN\s0 and old \s-1NCSA\s0) require an external
program to handle server-side imagemaps. These programs
are generally supplied with a full \s-1URL\s0 to the referenced
file. Newer servers have server-side imagemap support
built-in and can accept URLs relative to the current
directory. If you have a modern server, then specify this
value as a null string.
.Ip "\fB$opt_maptype\fR=\fImaptype\fR  (\fB--maptype\fR \fImaptype\fR)" 4
.IX Item "\fB$opt_maptype\fR=\fImaptype\fR  (\fB--maptype\fR \fImaptype\fR)"
Server-side map type (set to \*(L"ncsa\*(R" or \*(L"cern"). \s-1NCSA\s0 and
Apache servers require \*(L"ncsa\*(R". \s-1CERN\s0 requires \*(L"cern\*(R".
Phttpd can use either format.
.Sh "Image Map Options:"
.IX Subsection "Image Map Options:"
.Ip "\fB$opt_colortrans\fR=\fIcolorspec\fR  (\fB--colortrans\fR \fIcolorspec\fR)" 4
.IX Item "\fB$opt_colortrans\fR=\fIcolorspec\fR  (\fB--colortrans\fR \fIcolorspec\fR)"
Transparent color to use in montage. Usally the same as the background
color \fB$opt_colorback\fR of the imagemap page.
.Ip "\fB$opt_maxgif\fR=\fInumber\fR  (\fB--maxgif\fR \fInumber\fR)" 4
.IX Item "\fB$opt_maxgif\fR=\fInumber\fR  (\fB--maxgif\fR \fInumber\fR)"
Maximum size of \s-1GIF\s0 imagemap before trying \s-1JPEG\s0. This is
an optimization which tries to avoid the \s-1JPEG\s0 conversion step.
.Ip "\fB$opt_montageflags\fR=\fIstring\fR  (\fB--montageflags\fR \fIstring\fR)" 4
.IX Item "\fB$opt_montageflags\fR=\fIstring\fR  (\fB--montageflags\fR \fIstring\fR)"
Flags to ImageMagick \fBmontage\fR. The \fBmontage\fR program is used to generate
the thumbnail images used by \fBgifmap\fR. Read the the \fImontage\fR manpage for details.
.Ip "\fB$opt_rows\fR=\fInumber\fR  (\fB--rows\fR \fInumber\fR)" 4
.IX Item "\fB$opt_rows\fR=\fInumber\fR  (\fB--rows\fR \fInumber\fR)"
Montage rows (max). This is the maximum number of thumbnail rows
allowed per page.
.Ip "\fB$opt_thumbfont\fR=\fIfontspec\fR  (\fB--thumbfont\fR \fIfontspec\fR)" 4
.IX Item "\fB$opt_thumbfont\fR=\fIfontspec\fR  (\fB--thumbfont\fR \fIfontspec\fR)"
Thumbnail title font. This is the X11 font used to title
thumbnails. \s-1PERL\s0's newgetopt module seems to have difficulties with
the dashes in most X11 font specifications. If \fBgetopt\fR prints the
usage message rather than doing what you want to, then try using
the command line syntax \fI--thumbfont=fontspec\fR and you should have
better luck.
.Ip "\fB$opt_thumbgeom\fR=\fIgeometry\fR  (\fB--thumbgeom\fR \fIgeometry\fR)" 4
.IX Item "\fB$opt_thumbgeom\fR=\fIgeometry\fR  (\fB--thumbgeom\fR \fIgeometry\fR)"
Thumbnail geometry (widthxheight). This defines the size
of thumbnail images.
.Sh "Colors & Appearance:"
.IX Subsection "Colors & Appearance:"
.Ip "\fB$opt_address\fR=\fIstring\fR (\fB--address\fR \fIstring\fR)" 4
.IX Item "\fB$opt_address\fR=\fIstring\fR (\fB--address\fR \fIstring\fR)"
Additional information to place in <\s-1ADDRESS\s0></\s-1ADDRESS\s0> tags in 
page frame.
.Ip "\fB$opt_coloralink\fR=\fIcolorspec\fR  (\fB--coloralink\fR \fIcolorspec\fR)" 4
.IX Item "\fB$opt_coloralink\fR=\fIcolorspec\fR  (\fB--coloralink\fR \fIcolorspec\fR)"
Link (active) color for page frame.
.Ip "\fB$opt_colorback\fR=\fIcolorspec\fR  (\fB--colorback\fR \fIcolorspec\fR)" 4
.IX Item "\fB$opt_colorback\fR=\fIcolorspec\fR  (\fB--colorback\fR \fIcolorspec\fR)"
Background color for page frame.
.Ip "\fB$opt_colorlink\fR=\fIcolorspec\fR  (\fB--colorlink\fR \fIcolorspec\fR)" 4
.IX Item "\fB$opt_colorlink\fR=\fIcolorspec\fR  (\fB--colorlink\fR \fIcolorspec\fR)"
Link (unvisited) color for page frame.
.Ip "\fB$opt_colorvlink\fR=\fIcolorspec\fR  (\fB--colorvlink\fR \fIcolorspec\fR)" 4
.IX Item "\fB$opt_colorvlink\fR=\fIcolorspec\fR  (\fB--colorvlink\fR \fIcolorspec\fR)"
Link (visited) color for page frame.
.Ip "\fB$opt_dircoloralink\fR=\fIcolorspec\fR  (\fB--dircoloralink\fR \fIcolorspec\fR)" 4
.IX Item "\fB$opt_dircoloralink\fR=\fIcolorspec\fR  (\fB--dircoloralink\fR \fIcolorspec\fR)"
Link (active) color for directory frame. Defaults to value of \fB$opt_coloralink\fR
if not explicitly set.
.Ip "\fB$opt_dircolorback\fR=\fIcolorspec\fR  (\fB--dircolorback\fR \fIcolorspec\fR)" 4
.IX Item "\fB$opt_dircolorback\fR=\fIcolorspec\fR  (\fB--dircolorback\fR \fIcolorspec\fR)"
Background color for directory frame. Defaults to value of \fB$opt_colorback\fR
if not explicitly set.
.Ip "\fB$opt_dircolorlink\fR=\fIcolorspec\fR  (\fB--dircolorlink\fR \fIcolorspec\fR)" 4
.IX Item "\fB$opt_dircolorlink\fR=\fIcolorspec\fR  (\fB--dircolorlink\fR \fIcolorspec\fR)"
Link (unvisited) color for directory frame.  Defaults to value of \fB$opt_colorlink\fR
if not explicitly set.
.Ip "\fB$opt_dircolorvlink\fR=\fIcolorspec\fR  (\fB--dircolorvlink\fR \fIcolorspec\fR)" 4
.IX Item "\fB$opt_dircolorvlink\fR=\fIcolorspec\fR  (\fB--dircolorvlink\fR \fIcolorspec\fR)"
Link (visited) color for directory frame.  Defaults to value of \fB$opt_colorvlink\fR
if not explicitly set.
.Ip "\fB$opt_columns\fR=\fInumber\fR  (\fB--columns\fR \fInumber\fR)" 4
.IX Item "\fB$opt_columns\fR=\fInumber\fR  (\fB--columns\fR \fInumber\fR)"
Montage columns.
.Ip "\fBopt_frameddirfmt\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4
.IX Item "\fBopt_frameddirfmt\fR=\fIstring\fR"
Template (written in \s-1PERL\s0) that represents the format
used to generate the framed (left frame) directory
navigation page. This format will be seen by browsers
that support frames. This is a guru-level option and is
subject to change.
.Ip "\fBopt_dirfmt\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4
.IX Item "\fBopt_dirfmt\fR=\fIstring\fR"
Template (written in \s-1PERL\s0) that represents the format
used to generate the frame-less directory navigation
page. This format will be seen by browsers that do not
support frames. This is a guru-level option and is
subject to change.
.Ip "\fB$opt_header\fR=\fIstring\fR  (\fB--header\fR \fIstring\fR)" 4
.IX Item "\fB$opt_header\fR=\fIstring\fR  (\fB--header\fR \fIstring\fR)"
Text to add to page header in page frame. This option is subject to change
and will be eliminated if the page frame is templatized.
.Ip "\fB$opt_title\fR=\fIstring\fR  (\fB--title\fR \fIstring\fR)" 4
.IX Item "\fB$opt_title\fR=\fIstring\fR  (\fB--title\fR \fIstring\fR)"
Page title. If this option is not specified, then \fBgifmap\fR
will generate its own title.
.SH "AUTHORS"
.IX Header "AUTHORS"
\fBGifmap\fR is written and maintained by Bob Friesenhahn
(bfriesen@simple.dallas.tx.us) with copious input from Anthony
Thyssen (anthony@cit.gu.edu.au). Anthony's diligent
assistance as the first alpha tester is very much
appreciated.

.rn }` ''
